marijuana's does not cause long-term
cognitive impairment yes people who use
marijuana temporarily display a
diminished capacity to learn and recall
new information but this diminishment
only lasts for the duration of the
intoxication there's no convincing
evidence that heavy long-term marijuana
use permanently impairs memory or other
cognitive functions you know we're all
born ignorant but at some point in your
life you have to stop blaming the school
you went to stop blaming the church you
were raised in the religion your parents
forced on you as a kid at some point you
have to stop blaming others for your
ignorance and take responsibility for it
yourself now in the era of the internet
now more than ever before
ignorance is voluntary people people are
ignorant because they choose to be
ignorant I meet and talk to people who
act like they have no idea that broccoli
is healthy and that eating eggs and
cheese is unhealthy I just have no idea
and it's like would that really be a
five-minute Google search away but the
Internet presents us with an almost
infinite array of possible sources of
information and our attention span is
finite the amount we can choose to learn
from it's very finite indeed so what do
we choose well we often choose we we
speaking for humanity collector we often
choose what the information that comes
in attractive packaging and that's
telling us something we already want to
hear Jacqueline Glenn for many years has
been getting hundreds of thousands of
viewers because he's got attractive
packaging and she delivers you
hard-hitting messages like the claim
that marijuana doesn't cause any brain
damage at all
now here by contrast here's some here's
some bad news in a plain brown package
it's an unappealing package and it's
telling you something you don't want to
hear I'm gonna tell you the source I'm
quoting in just a moment but pretend for
a moment you don't know the source and
the source pretend you're just
encountering this as a scrap of text
floating around the internet with no
idea what kind of authority comes from
and pretend there are no other sources
available to allow me to prove to you
that Jaclyn Glenn is wrong that Jaclyn
Glenn has been lying that in fact
marijuana does cause brain damage what
would you make what would you make of
this
this claim I think there's something
about the very structure and nature of
the information being presented there's
something something about it that
demands to be taken seriously quote our
study demonstrates a pattern of gray
matter of volume changes in a group of
regular cannabis users compared with a
group of occasional ones just an
interesting note everyone who
participated in the study was age 19 to
29 so there were no effects of the brain
here old age or other cumulative habits
over many years interesting choice for
the study design regular users exhibit a
decrease in gray matter volume in the
medial RV if the medial temporal cortex
temporal Pole parahippocampal gyrus left
insula and orbital frontal context
cortex I'm not a brain surgeon
I'm not let me ask you in the audience
if I hadn't struggled to pronounce the
different parts of the human brain there
do you think any of you would have just
felt comfortable with marijuana causing
brain damage with marijuana
marijuana causing the loss of very
matter in just some parts of the brain
and not others was there anyone in the
audience who is sitting there thinking
hmm okay
the temporal cortex temporal Pole that I
can live with that's no problem but wait
a minute it causes brain damage also in
the orbital frontal cortex okay forget
it I'm out okay now I'm gonna take this
seriously guys now I'm gonna quit
smoking marijuana before the first four
or five parts of the brain you mentioned
being damaged by marijuana that I was
cool with but not that last cortex that
was one cortex too many that was a
bridge too far
I don't see it I mean there are people
who decide to smoke cigarettes and they
feel a disconnect like well that does
damage to my lungs but somehow it
doesn't do damage to me like as if who I
am and my lungs are two really separable
things they drink alcohol and they think
it just damages their kidney and their
liver and they say they're comfortable
with whatever happens to their kidney
and liver as if you know my kidney and
my liver that's not who I really am
that's not really me your brain is your
brain is who you really are broth
there's no way anyone could say they're
at peace with just some parts of their
brain being horribly damaged horribly
embarrassed ruk chiral changes to their
brain I don't think anyone's comfortable
with any one of these locations of the
brain being damaged by marijuana maybe
I'm wrong send the email guys I'm not
I'm waiting for that to come in all
right so we continue here these changes
strongly correlate with the monthly
frequency of cannabis use in the three
months before inclusion in the study
specifically significant gray matter
atrophy can occur either with a heavy
cannabis consumption independent of the
age of first use or with recreational
consumption that started during
adolescence before the age of 18 there's
no convincing evidence that heavy
long-term marijuana use permanently
impairs memory or other cognitive
functions then we have the next segment
which is where the psychiatrist comes in
and this is my favorite part because she
speaks so much [ __ ] that's gonna
take me forever to cover so I'm gonna
try to sum it up but she starts off by
saying marijuana is actually not good
for you then she goes on to say that if
you smoke at a young age you have a
higher incidence of psychosis and
psychotic disorders and that at alters
my organization of the brain cells and
that the brain continues developing
through your early 20s therefore if you
affect the myelin ization of brain cells
before this point you have permanent
brain damage after now she is right that
marijuana can have detrimental effects
to children with developing brains and
certain people with latent schizophrenia
or other disorders but so does alcohol
so does Big Gulp
so peanuts and a plethora of other
things that I could probably come up
with that aren't good for you
however her claims about tea
modernization are
factually incorrect cannabinoid
receptors are actually indicated in the
treatment of demyelinating diseases this
woman obviously has some preconceived
notions about cannabis and how it's bad
for you and she's grouping pieces of
information together to support her
argument I am NOT gonna trivialize the
problem by claiming that Jacqueline
Glenn is just a pretty face you can see
that the message she's delivering is
much more dangerous it's much more
harmful because she is wrapping herself
in the cloak of skepticism her audience
is supposedly comprised of skeptics
and yet this is the most dangerous kind
of pseudoscience what she's presenting
it's more dangerous precisely because it
has more of a resemblance to real and
credible science and it's presented you
in appealing packaging how can we expect
the fine publishers over at nature to
compete well look at what they're
managing to put out here
neuropsychopharmacology come on that's a
journal nobody can even spell the title
it's a terrible name for a journal how
are you gonna sell any copies on
newsstands with a title like that
yeah well it's a respectable
peer-reviewed journal that's what I was
quoting before and that's what I'm
interested in quoting again our findings
corroborates several animal studies
adding evidence that the duration of
exposure to cannabis is indeed
associated with localized volume
reduction in regions rich in cb1
receptors correlating with the amount of
cannabis used let me just let me just
emphasize here mmm
volume volume it doesn't mean doesn't
mean they're turning down the volume in
the brain it's not it's not about sound
here okay localized volume reduction
that's talking about the actual
shrinkage of lobes of the brain okay
the loss of gray matter being visible as
shrinking hemispheres of the brain shall
we say continue our conversation here
the progression of them a long-term
exposure to drugs toward the development
of substance use disorders
and addictive behaviour is often
associated with deficits in
decision-making fMRI Demps as the fMRI
is a type of brain scan demonstrates
altered brain activity in core regions
linked to the motivational and affective
aspects of decision-making mean lee in
the ventral medial prefrontal cortex and
the orbitofrontal cortices and insula in
this regard that has been demonstrated
that substance dependent individuals in
patients with vmPFC lesions exhibit
similar behaviors that lead them to make
similar decisions in real life
preferring choices that bring immediate
benefits even if coupled with negative
consequences thoughts so what they're
saying here is the type of brain damage
they have proven proven marijuana to
cause it doesn't just show up in a brain
scan on a computer screen down at the
hospital it's also evident in changes in
human behavior in the types of decisions
people make we continue in our study we
complement the functional evidence of
altered activity and nodes related to
decision-making by showing in regular
cannabis users a decrease in gray matter
volume in the insula and pre kunis this
is a word that can't even gets out of
pronounce regions that are part of the
motivational and affective components of
this network it's like something however
you pronounce it that is not a part of
your brain that you want to shrink and
have gray matter loss and permanent
impairment and structural changes in I
don't think there are any parts of your
brain you'd want that in quote in
addition to the changes in the polar
regions there are also changes in the
medial temporal cortex which is one of
the structures often reported to be
associate with cannabis addiction and
where we find a strong bilateral
decrease in gray matter volume in the
population of regular cannabis users
such a pattern of atrophy has also been
described in other forms of addiction
such as alcohol addiction but not in
heroin users however other patients with
severe non-toxic behavioral addiction
such as pathological gambling do not
present the same form of atrophy
suggesting that temporal atrophy is
indeed associated with cannabis
consumption rather than a dick
behavior itself despite the fact that
the neurobiological interpretation of
this volume reduction so again volume
reduction the shrinking in size of parts
of your brain that sorts argue about you
despite the fact the neurobiological
interpretation this volume reduction is
still unclear studies on rodents give
some clues on this point
skeletal back in 1987 found a THC
induced decrease in the mean volume of
hippocampal neurons and a 44% reduction
in the number of synapses up to seven
months after exposure in relation to
gray matter volume reduction and regions
linked to affective and emotional
processes described so far the insula
and the orbital frontal cortex we also
show structural variations in the
temporal Pole to our knowledge ours is
the first study showing gray matter
atrophy in the temporal Pole in regular
cannabis users and the degree of atrophy
related to the frequency of drug use in
the three months preceding inclusion
studies pause here this already gives
you the sense that this is not the only
peer-reviewed study I could be quoting I
have in the past put up a video that's
nothing but me reading out PVCs but it
seems like no matter how many sources of
God no matter how the evidence stacks up
no matter how about many new
publications brag that they found yet
more evidence of yet another specific
type of brain damage being caused by by
cannabis by marijuana by THC that's
really what we're talking about here it
seems like people once dead opt for the
form of information that makes excuses
for their bad habits that comes in the
pre-packaging and guys I confronted Mike
the vegan with this mic the vegan is
University educated as a health health
educator health expert he supposedly
does science-based
health education videos he's 100%
committed to living a lie on this issue
he's out there encouraging people to get
brain damage
just like Lachlan Jacqueline let's live
there but don't you want to take down
your videos when you're supposedly
scientific argument
have been debunked as pseudoscience and
when you could have at any point in
these last 10 years just done a couple
of Google searches challenged your own
biased assumptions and found out that no
there really is hard evidence that
marijuana causes brain damage
shouldn't you feel some sense of
responsibility for giving this bed of
ice to people vegan gains you guys know
I used to talk to him then he threatened
to sue me and we stopped talking um
vegan gains out there claiming to be a
man of science he doesn't care he
consistently lies in this issue he lies
to himself and he lies to others and a
lot of people out there including ask
yourself they make it seem like
marijuana is a harmless or recreational
activity and the scientific evidence
says otherwise ok so to conclude here in
our study we provide new arguments about
the effects of long-term exposure to
cannabis on brain structure integrity do
you value your brain structure integrity
enough to quit smoking marijuana I think
most people have more of a sentimental
attachment to the integrity of their
brain structure than they have to their
their lungs their kidney deliver maybe
I'm Way off here it's a sentimental
decision really it's up to you it's up
to you as it's legal now so you know
your choice we were able to support all
the hypotheses raised in the
introduction one we demonstrate that
regular cannabis use is associated with
reduced gray matter volume in regions
rich in cannabinoid cb1 receptors that
are functionally linked to motivational
emotional and affective processing you
know those processes they're a
significant portion of what we might
call your personality or who you are
it's a pretty significant part of your
daily brain function we're not even
getting into memory here another proven
problem with marijuana use - we complete
our findings by showing that the
magnitude of changes in these regions
correlates with the frequency of
cannabis use and 3 is modulated by the
age at which consumption was initiated
the choice is yours
but I'd invite you to really question
why it is you're making the choice
Jacqueline Glen is an attractive woman I
mean a lot of my viewers make fun of me
because I'm very stingy when it comes
handing out compliments indeed I just
see no reason to participate in this
21st century culture of panting
accomplice to everyone all the time
telling everybody they're beautiful the
people who really are beautiful don't
need to hear that they're beautiful the
people who aren't beautiful don't need
to be flattered either it's demeaning to
everyone no matter which way the
compliment game goes but yes Jacqueline
Glen is a good-looking woman and you
know men do foolish things for
good-looking women all the time with
this latest controversy with the Prime
Minister of Canada wearing blackface the
question I want to ask is who are these
two women in the photograph with them
what were they thinking they're into it
and was he dressing up in blackface to
impress these these chicks everyone he
was hanging out of the party I don't
know I mean obviously of course he's
gonna bear the blame for this but I have
to wonder if this falls into the
category of amazingly stupid things that
men do trying to make a positive
impression on women I where are those
two women now I don't know Oh
in any case you know there's a huge
range of terrible lamentable awful human
behavior that's motivated by you know
the desire to just be around attractive
people even if you're not seducing them
you know heterosexual women want to be
around other attractive heterosexual
women and heterosexual men have their
own reasons obviously there's a very
strange effect on the ego and on the
course of reasoning that physical beauty
seems to have on people because this is
this is nothing to play with this is not
gossip this is not drama this is brain
damage if we can't take this seriously
set aside our own biases and learn truth
from facts what can we do
[Music]